Now to conclude our section about outer ization let's do some work on the contact page.
So what we will do in this lecture is we have the simple contact page which just displays one paragraph.
So what we would like to do is we will like to add a link to another page which would contain some detailed
contact information like an email or a phone.
And we want this page to look like this for anyone who has not authenticated but for authenticated users
that are for example admins.
We would like to display a link to the special contact page and also we would like to protect this special
control page from anyone that is not authenticated and not an admin.
So that seems like a use case that you might have in your application.
So let's first start with our our service provider.
So as we have introduced the blog post policy class you might think that you should use policies for
everything.
But we talked about that before and that's obviously not the case.
So policies are used best when you have a resource or a model that you want to specify some abilities
rights permissions for that particular resource or model.
But using Gates is just perfectly fine you might define them for any other cases.
That seems to be like a global to your application or basically they do not relate to any specific model.
Now we will define a gate that will protect this resource which is our special contact page.
So we'll define it as contact or maybe we have com controller so we can even use home secret.
So that's the name of our new gate.
Then it will receive a callback.
So the first argument is always on user you never have to pass it when you verify permissions.
And then there are additional arguments if you provide them.
So when you check for permissions you should provide those arguments.
But if you don't have any you don't have to do that.
So that's enough.
That's the simplest gate.
So since we won't be checking for any models we do not have any more arguments.
Now we can just simply return whatever the user is admin and that's it.
That's our gate.
Now let's go to the view which shows the contact page which can be found inside the views folder.
That's this one contact the blade BHP.
What we can immediately do is we can use what we learned in the previous lecture so we can use the can
directive.
So the gate name is home.
Secret
and here we can display our special link
so we haven't we don't have a route for this special link yet.
So we just we'll just display text to verify that.
Let's go back to our application and see if that works
apparently I've misspelled the name of the class.
So it's gate and not gate sorry for that.
Let's fix that quickly and refresh.
Now you can see that we see this text special contact details because we are out integrated as John
Doe which is an account for an admin in our system.
So if you log out you can see that on the contact page you won't see anything.
Also if you will try to log in as one of the other users you have inside the database from the cedar.
Remember that the password for all of them is secret.
You can see that you want see this special link.
So let's log in again as John Doe go to the contact page.
And now let's open our Controller.
So we have our home controller by the way.
You can actually remove this action we are not using it anymore.
And also we can ditch this old blog post template.
So let's remove it altogether now will define a method to show this secret page.
Let's call it secret and it will simply return a View called secret
and now you should create a new template inside the views folder.
So let's go ahead and do that.
This would be secret blade BHP and this could be copied from the contract because this would basically
extend the layout and show some additional information.
Of course we do not need this can directive here.
So this is secret e-mail secret.
Lara test.
All right so this is our secret page now we do not use our resource controller and it won't work anyway
for our home controller.
So let's go to Web BHP where we are defining our routes.
Now we have two routes defined using our home controller.
First one is the home one.
And the second one is contact.
Now let's define another one for our secret page.
So this will be get secret and the controller is home controller method name is secret name would also
be secret.
And here's another thing we will do so we'll protect this.
You are all together the same way we did that with when we applied the middleware out for our home controller.
We just did that to show you how we can protect certain URL that users that are not authenticated cannot
visit this URL at all.
And what we will do now is will do the same thing with secret just that users that are not out integrated
well in this case it won't be about if the user is authenticated or not but whether he is an admin or
he isn't
so will add middleware to this route media were using middleware method and what we can do is we can
use our can and middleware can middleware works exactly the same as you would use it inside for example
larval blade directive it is using the larval alteration system.
And now what you can do is the first argument should be the name of the ability in our case is home
secret.
And then additionally using commerce you can specify another parameter.
So for example if you would like this to protect root that for example is related to a model let's say
a post you would be able to do something like post update and post and posting this case would be the
name of the root parameter like we have inside our roots for editing deleting posts but we are doing
a simpler case this time I will show you the more complicated cases later in this course but now we
just need to check for home secret.
That's it.
Now we are protecting this secret page so no one who is an admin won't be able to visit it.
The final thing to do is on our contact page we need to display a link so let's do that.
We did that couple of times before so you should already know how to do that but you of course have
to put a link then we'll echo our route using root function and the root name is secret
and basically that's it.
Let's also change the label to go to special contact details.
And this is basically it.
Now let's refresh the page and since I am an admin I can go to the secret page so you can see I as an
admin was able to do that.
Now let's go to the other is bar and copy the URL.
Now let's log out and try to paste this page so we can see that we are unable to visit it that you can
see that we have the 400 free that we are on to rise to do that.
Now let's also go ahead and log in as someone else for example I have this Ahlam heels so I will log
our logging.
Ask her remember that you only need to use if you use the default seating logic that I've shown you
only in the email that password is always secret but it will be different in your database us as you
know it is being randomly generated so let's logging us this lady password is secret we can even save
it.
Now we can see we are Arlan hills and if you go to contact page you can see that you are unable to see
the link to the special contact page.
It is only for admins and obviously we can't visit that link.